§ 7020. Methods for Submitting Requests to Delete, Requests to Correct, and Requests to Know.
 ......................................................................................................................................................... 25 
§ 7021. Timelines for Responding to Requests to Delete, Requests to Correct, and Requests to 
Know. ............................................................................................................................................... 26 
§ 7022. Requests to Delete. ............................................................................................................. 27 
§ 7023. Requests to Correct. ........................................................................................................... 29 
§ 7024. Requests to Know. .............................................................................................................. 32 
§ 7025. Opt-out Preference Signals. ................................................................................................ 35 
§ 7026. Requests to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing. ................................................................................. 40 
§ 7027. Requests to Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information. ......................... 43 
§ 7028. Requests to Opt-in After Opting-out of the Sale or Sharing of Personal Information. ...... 46 

CPPA
 
Page 2 of 67 
ARTICLE 4 . SERVICE PROVIDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND THIRD PARTIES ....................................... 47 
§ 7050. Service Providers and Contractors. ..................................................................................... 47 
§ 7020.  Methods for Submitting Requests to Delete, Requests to Correct, and Requests to 
Know. 
(a) A business that operates exclusively online and has a direct relationship with a consumer 
from whom it collects personal information shall only be required to provide an email 
address for submitting requests to delete, requests to correct, and requests to know.  
(b) A business that does not fit the description in subsection (a) shall provide two or more 
designated methods for submitting requests to delete, requests to correct, and requests to 
know. One of those methods must be a toll-free telephone number. If the business 
maintains an internet website, one of the methods for submitting these requests shall be 
through its website, such as through a webform. Other methods for submitting requests to 
delete, requests to correct, and requests to know may include, but are not limited to, a 
designated email address, a form submitted in person, and a form submitted through the 
mail. 
(c) A business shall consider the methods by which it primarily interacts with consumers when 
determining which methods to provide for submitting requests to delete, requests to 
correct, and requests to know. If the business interacts with consumers in person, the 
business shall consider providing an in-person method such as a printed form the 
consumer can directly submit or send by mail, a tablet or computer portal that allows the 

CPPA
 
Page 26 of 67 
consumer to complete and submit an online form, or a telephone with which the 
consumer can call the business’s toll-free number.  
(d) A business may use a two-step process for online requests to delete where the consumer 
must first, submit the request to delete and then second, separately confirm that they 
want their personal information deleted provided that the business otherwise complies 
with section 7004.  
(e) If a consumer submits a request in a manner that is not one of the designated methods of 
submission, or is deficient in some manner unrelated to the verification process, the 
business shall either:  
(1)  Treat the request as if it had been submitted in accordance with the business’s 
designated manner, or  
(2) Provide the consumer with information on how to submit the request or remedy any 
deficiencies with the request, if applicable.  
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100, 1798.105, 
1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.130, 1798.140 and 1798.185, Civil Code. 
§ 7021.  Timelines for Responding to Requests to Delete, Requests to Correct, and Requests 
to Know.  
(a)  No later than 10 business days after receiving a request to delete, request to correct, or 
request to know, a business shall confirm receipt of the request and provide information 
about how the business will process the request. The information provided shall describe in 
general the business’s verification process and when the consumer should expect a 
response, except in instances where the business has already granted or denied the 
request. The confirmation may be given in the same manner in which the request was 
received. For example, if the request is made over the phone, the confirmation may be 
given orally during the phone call. 
(b)  Businesses shall respond to a request to delete, request to correct, and request to know no 
later than 45 calendar days after receipt of the request. The 45-day period will begin on the 
day that the business receives the request, regardless of time required to verify the 
request. If the business cannot verify the consumer within the 45-day time period, the 
business may deny the request. If necessary, businesses may take up to an additional 45 
calendar days to respond to the consumer’s request, for a maximum total of 90 calendar 
days from the day the request is received, provided that the business provides the 
consumer with notice and an explanation of the reason that the business will take more 
than 45 days to respond to the request.  
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100, 1798.105, 
1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.130, 1798.140 and 1798.185, Civil Code. 

CPPA
 
Page 27 of 67 
§ 7022. Requests to Delete.  
(a) For requests to delete, if a business cannot verify the identity of the requestor pursuant to 
the regulations set forth in Article 5, the business may deny the request to delete. The 
business shall inform the requestor that their identity cannot be verified.  
(b) A business shall comply with a consumer’s request to delete their personal information by:  
(1)  Permanently and completely erasing the personal information from its existing 
systems except archived or backup systems, deidentifying the personal information, or 
aggregating the consumer information; 
(2) Notifying the business’s service providers or contractors of the need to delete from 
their records the consumer’s personal information that they collected pursuant to 
their written contract with the business, or if enabled to do so by the service provider 
or contractor, the business shall delete the personal information that the service 
provider or contractor collected pursuant to their written contract with the business; 
and 
(3) Notifying all third parties to whom the business has sold or shared the personal 
information of the need to delete the consumer’s personal information unless this 
proves impossible or involves disproportionate effort. If a business claims that 
notifying some or all third parties would be impossible or would involve 
disproportionate effort, the business shall provide the consumer a detailed 
explanation that includes enough facts to give a consumer a meaningful understanding 
as to why the business cannot notify all third parties. The business shall not simply 
state that notifying all third parties is impossible or would require disproportionate 
effort.  
(c) A service provider or contractor shall, with respect to personal information that they 
collected pursuant to their written contract with the business and upon notification by the 
business, cooperate with the business in responding to a request to delete by doing all of 
the following: 
(1) Permanently and completely erasing the personal information from its existing 
systems except archived or backup systems, deidentifying the personal information, 
aggregating the consumer information, or enabling the business to do so. 
(2) To the extent that an exception applies to the deletion of personal information, 
deleting or enabling the business to delete the consumer’s personal information that 
is not subject to the exception and refraining from using the consumer’s personal 
information retained for any purpose other than the purpose provided for by that 
exception.  

CPPA
 
Page 28 of 67 
(3) Notifying any of its own service providers or contractors of the need to delete from 
their records in the same manner the consumer’s personal information that they 
collected pursuant to their written contract with the service provider or contractor. 
(4) Notifying any other service providers, contractors, or third parties that may have 
accessed personal information from or through the service provider or contractor, 
unless the information was accessed at the direction of the business, of the need to 
delete the consumer’s personal information unless this proves impossible or involves 
disproportionate effort. 
(d) If a business, service provider, or contractor stores any personal information on archived or 
backup systems, it may delay compliance with the consumer’s request to delete, with 
respect to data stored on the archived or backup system, until the archived or backup 
system relating to that data is restored to an active system or is next accessed or used for a 
sale, disclosure, or commercial purpose. 
(e) In responding to a request to delete, a business shall inform the consumer whether it has 
complied with the consumer’s request. The business shall also inform the consumer that it 
will maintain a record of the request as required by section 7101, subsection (a). A 
business, service provider, contractor, or third party may retain a record of the request for 
the purpose of ensuring that the consumer’s personal information remains deleted from 
its records. 
(f) In cases where a business denies a consumer’s request to delete in whole or in part, the 
business shall do all of the following: 
(1)  Provide to the consumer a detailed explanation of the basis for the denial, including 
any conflict with federal or state law, exception to the CCPA, or factual basis for 
contending that compliance would be impossible or involve disproportionate effort, 
unless prohibited from doing so by law. 
(2) Delete the consumer’s personal information that is not subject to the exception. 
(3) Not use the consumer’s personal information retained for any other purpose than 
provided for by that exception; and 
(4) Instruct its service providers and contractors to delete the consumer’s personal 
information that is not subject to the exception and to not use the consumer’s 
personal information retained for any purpose other than the purpose provided for 
by that exception. 
(g) If a business that denies a consumer’s request to delete sells or shares personal 
information and the consumer has not already made a request to opt-out of sale/sharing, 
the business shall ask the consumer if they would like to opt-out of the sale or sharing of 

CPPA
 
Page 29 of 67 
their personal information and shall include either the contents of, or a link to, the Notice 
of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing in accordance with section 7013. 
(h) In responding to a request to delete, a business may present the consumer with the choice 
to delete select portions of their personal information as long as a single option to delete 
all personal information is also offered. A business that provides consumers the ability to 
delete select categories of personal information in other contexts (e.g., purchase history, 
browsing history, voice recordings), however, must inform consumers of their ability to do 
so and direct them to how they can do so. For example, a business may provide the 
consumer with a link to a support page or other resource that explains consumers’ data 
deletion options. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.105, 1798.130 and 
1798.185, Civil Code. 
§ 7023. Requests to Correct.  
(a) For requests to correct, if a business cannot verify the identity of the requestor pursuant to 
the regulations set forth in Article 5, the business may deny the request to correct. The 
business shall inform the requestor that their identity cannot be verified.  
(b) In determining the accuracy of the personal information that is the subject of a consumer’s 
request to correct, the business shall consider the totality of the circumstances relating to 
the contested personal information. A business may deny a consumer’s request to correct 
if it determines that the contested personal information is more likely than not accurate 
based on the totality of the circumstances.  
(1) Considering the totality of the circumstances includes, but is not limited to, 
considering: 
(A)  The nature of the personal information (e.g., whether it is objective, subjective, 
unstructured, sensitive, etc.).  
(B)  How the business obtained the contested information. 
(C)  Documentation relating to the accuracy of the information whether provided by 
the consumer, the business, or another source. Requirements regarding 
documentation are set forth in subsection (d).  
(2)  If the business is not the source of the personal information and has no 
documentation in support of the accuracy of the information, the consumer’s 
assertion of inaccuracy may be sufficient to establish that the personal information is 
inaccurate. 
(c) A business that complies with a consumer’s request to correct shall correct the personal 
information at issue on its existing systems. The business shall also instruct all service 

CPPA
 
Page 30 of 67 
providers and contractors that maintain the personal information at issue pursuant to their 
written contract with the business to make the necessary corrections in their respective 
systems. Service providers and contractors shall comply with the business’s instructions to 
correct the personal information or enable the business to make the corrections. If a 
business, service provider, or contractor stores any personal information that is the subject 
of the request to correct on archived or backup systems, it may delay compliance with the 
consumer’s request to correct, with respect to data stored on the archived or backup 
system, until the archived or backup system relating to that data is restored to an active 
system or is next accessed or used. 
(d)  Documentation. 
(1)  A business shall accept, review, and consider any documentation that the consumer 
provides in connection with their right to correct whether provided voluntarily or as 
required by the business. Consumers should make a good-faith effort to provide 
businesses with all necessary information available at the time of the request. 
(2) A business may require the consumer to provide documentation if necessary to rebut 
its own documentation that the personal information is accurate. In determining the 
necessity of the documentation requested, the business shall consider the following: 
(A)  The nature of the personal information at issue (e.g., whether it is objective, 
subjective, unstructured, sensitive, etc.).  
(B) The nature of the documentation upon which the business considers the 
personal information to be accurate (e.g., whether the documentation is from a 
trusted source, whether the documentation is verifiable, etc.)  
(C) The purpose for which the business collects, maintains, or uses the personal 
information. For example, if the personal information is essential to the 
functioning of the business, the business may require more documentation. 
(D) The impact on the consumer. For example, if the personal information has a 
negative impact on the consumer, the business may require less 
documentation. 
(3)  Any documentation provided by the consumer in connection with their request to 
correct shall only be used and/or maintained by the business for the purpose of 
correcting the consumer’s personal information and to comply with the record-
keeping obligations under section 7101.  
(4)  The business shall implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and 
practices in maintaining any documentation relating to the consumer’s request to 
correct.  

CPPA
 
Page 31 of 67 
(e) A business may delete the contested personal information as an alternative to correcting 
the information if the deletion of the personal information does not negatively impact the 
consumer, or the consumer consents to the deletion. For example, if deleting instead of 
correcting inaccurate personal information would make it harder for the consumer to 
obtain a job, housing, credit, education, or other type of opportunity, the business shall 
process the request to correct or obtain the consumer’s consent to delete the information. 
(f) In responding to a request to correct, a business shall inform the consumer whether it has 
complied with the consumer’s request. If the business denies a consumer’s request to 
correct in whole or in part, the business shall do the following: 
(1) Explain the basis for the denial, including any conflict with federal or state law, 
exception to the CCPA, inadequacy in the required documentation, or contention 
that compliance proves impossible or involves disproportionate effort.  
(2) If a business claims that complying with the consumer’s request to correct would be 
impossible or would involve disproportionate effort, the business shall provide the 
consumer a detailed explanation that includes enough facts to give a consumer a 
meaningful understanding as to why the business cannot comply with the request. 
The business shall not simply state that it is impossible or would require 
disproportionate effort.  
(3) If a business denies a consumer’s request to correct personal information collected 
and analyzed concerning a consumer’s health, the business shall also inform the 
consumer that they may provide a written statement to the business to be made part 
of the consumer’s record pursuant to Civil Code section 1798.185, subdivision 
(a)(8)(D). The business shall explain to the consumer that the written statement is 
limited to 250 words per alleged inaccurate piece of personal information and shall 
include that the consumer must request that the statement be made part of the 
consumer’s record. Upon receipt of such a statement, the business shall include it 
with the consumer’s record.  
(4) If the personal information at issue can be deleted pursuant to a request to delete, 
inform the consumer that they can make a request to delete the personal 
information and provide instructions on how the consumer can make a request to 
delete.  
(g) A business may deny a consumer’s request to correct if the business has denied the 
consumer’s request to correct the same alleged inaccuracy within the past six months of 
receiving the request. However, the business must treat the request to correct as new if 
the consumer provides new or additional documentation to prove that the information at 
issue is inaccurate. 
(h) A business may deny a request to correct if it has a good-faith, reasonable, and 
documented belief that a request to correct is fraudulent or abusive. The business shall 

CPPA
 
Page 32 of 67 
inform the requestor that it will not comply with the request and shall provide an 
explanation why it believes the request is fraudulent or abusive. 
(i) Where the business is not the source of the information that the consumer contends is 
inaccurate, in addition to processing the consumer’s request, the business may provide the 
consumer with the name of the source from which the business received the alleged 
inaccurate information.  
(j) 
Upon request, a business shall disclose specific pieces of personal information that the 
business maintains and has collected about the consumer to allow the consumer to 
confirm that the business has corrected the inaccurate information that was the subject of 
the consumer’s request to correct. This disclosure shall not be considered a response to a 
request to know that is counted towards the limitation of two requests within a 12-month 
period as set forth in Civil Code section 1798.130, subdivision (b). With regard to a 
correction to a consumer’s Social Security number, driver’s license number or other 
government-issued identification number, financial account number, any health insurance 
or medical identification number, an account password, security questions and answers, or 
unique biometric data generated from measurements or technical analysis of human 
characteristics, a business shall not disclose this information, but may provide a way to 
confirm that the personal information it maintains is the same as what the consumer has 
provided. 
(k) Whether a business, service provider, or contractor has implemented measures to ensure 
that personal information that is the subject of a request to correct remains corrected 
factors into whether that business, service provider, or contractor has complied with a 
consumer’s request to correct in accordance with the CCPA and these regulations. For 
example, a business, service provider, or contractor may supplement personal information 
it maintains about consumers with information obtained from a data broker. Failing to 
consider and address the possibility that corrected information may be overridden by 
inaccurate information subsequently received from a data broker may factor into whether 
that business, service provider, or contractor has adequately complied with a consumer’s 
request to correct. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.81.5, 1798.106, 
1798.130 and 1798.185, Civil Code. 
§ 7024. Requests to Know.  
(a) For requests that seek the disclosure of specific pieces of information about the consumer, 
if a business cannot verify the identity of the person making the request pursuant to the 
regulations set forth in Article 5, the business shall not disclose any specific pieces of 
personal information to the requestor and shall inform the requestor that it cannot verify 
their identity. If the request is denied in whole or in part, the business shall also evaluate 
the consumer’s request as if it is seeking the disclosure of categories of personal 
information about the consumer pursuant to subsection (b). 

CPPA
 
Page 33 of 67 
(b)  For requests that seek the disclosure of categories of personal information about the 
consumer, if a business cannot verify the identity of the person making the request 
pursuant to the regulations set forth in Article 5, the business may deny the request to 
disclose the categories and other information requested and shall inform the requestor 
that it cannot verify their identity. If the request is denied in whole or in part, the business 
shall provide or direct the consumer to its information practices set forth in its privacy 
policy.  
(c) In responding to a request to know, a business is not required to search for personal 
information if all of the following conditions are met: 
(1) The business does not maintain the personal information in a searchable or 
reasonably accessible format. 
(2) The business maintains the personal information solely for legal or compliance 
purposes. 
(3) The business does not sell the personal information and does not use it for any 
commercial purpose. 
(4) The business describes to the consumer the categories of records that may contain 
personal information that it did not search because it meets the conditions stated 
above.  
(d) A business shall not disclose in response to a request to know a consumer’s Social Security 
number, driver’s license number or other government-issued identification number, 
financial account number, any health insurance or medical identification number, an 
account password, security questions and answers, or unique biometric data generated 
from measurements or technical analysis of human characteristics. The business shall, 
however, inform the consumer with sufficient particularity that it has collected the type of 
information. For example, a business shall respond that it collects “unique biometric data 
including a fingerprint scan” without disclosing the actual fingerprint scan data. 
(e)  If a business denies a consumer’s verified request to know specific pieces of personal 
information, in whole or in part, because of a conflict with federal or state law, or an 
exception to the CCPA, the business shall inform the requestor and explain the basis for the 
denial, unless prohibited from doing so by law. If the request is denied only in part, the 
business shall disclose the other information sought by the consumer. 
(f)  A business shall use reasonable security measures when transmitting personal information 
to the consumer.  
(g)  If a business maintains a password-protected account with the consumer, it may comply 
with a request to know by using a secure self-service portal for consumers to access, view, 
and receive a portable copy of their personal information if the portal fully discloses the 

CPPA
 
Page 34 of 67 
personal information that the consumer is entitled to under the CCPA and these 
regulations, uses reasonable data security controls, and complies with the verification 
requirements set forth in Article 5.  
(h)  In response to a request to know, a business shall provide all the personal information it 
has collected and maintains about the consumer during the 12-month period preceding the 
business’s receipt of the consumer’s request.  A consumer may request that the business 
provide personal information that the business collected beyond the 12-month period, as 
long as it was collected on or after January 1, 2022, and the business shall be required to 
provide that information unless doing so proves impossible or would involve 
disproportionate effort. That information shall include any personal information that the 
business’s service providers or contractors collected pursuant to their written contract with 
the business. If a business claims that providing personal information beyond the 12-month 
period preceding the business’s receipt of the consumer’s request would be impossible or 
would involve disproportionate effort, the business shall not be required to provide it as 
long as the business provides the consumer a detailed explanation that includes enough 
facts to give a consumer a meaningful understanding as to why the business cannot 
provide personal information beyond the 12-month period. The business shall not simply 
state that it is impossible or would require disproportionate effort.  
(i) 
A service provider or contractor shall provide assistance to the business in responding to a 
verifiable consumer request to know, including by providing the business the consumer’s 
personal information it has in its possession that it collected pursuant to their written 
contract with the business, or by enabling the business to access that personal 
information.  
(j) 
In responding to a consumer’s verified request to know categories of personal information, 
categories of sources, and/or categories of third parties, a business shall provide an 
individualized response to the consumer as required by the CCPA. It shall not refer the 
consumer to the businesses’ information practices outlined in its privacy policy unless its 
response would be the same for all consumers and the privacy policy discloses all the 
information that is otherwise required to be in a response to a request to know such 
categories.  
(k) In responding to a verified request to know categories of personal information, the 
business shall provide all of the following:  
(1) The categories of personal information the business has collected about the 
consumer. 
(2) The categories of sources from which the personal information was collected. 
(3) The business or commercial purpose for which it collected or sold the personal 
information. 

CPPA
 
Page 35 of 67 
(4) The categories of third parties with whom the business shares personal information. 
(5) The categories of personal information that the business sold, and for each category 
identified, the categories of third parties to whom it sold that particular category of 
personal information. 
(6) The categories of personal information that the business disclosed for a business 
purpose, and for each category identified, the categories of third parties to whom it 
disclosed that particular category of personal information. 
(l) 
A business shall identify the categories of personal information, categories of sources of 
personal information, and categories of third parties to whom a business sold or disclosed 
personal information, in a manner that provides consumers a meaningful understanding of 
the categories listed. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.110, 1798.115, 
1798.130, 1798.140 and 1798.185, Civil Code. 
§ 7025. Opt-out Preference Signals. 
(a)   The purpose of an opt-out preference signal is to provide consumers with a simple and 
easy-to-use method by which consumers interacting with businesses online can 
automatically exercise their right to opt-out of sale/sharing. Through an opt-out preference 
signal, a consumer can opt-out of sale and sharing of their personal information with all 
businesses they interact with online without having to make individualized requests with 
each business. 
(b) A business that sells or shares personal information shall process any opt-out preference 
signal that meets the following requirements as a valid request to opt-out of sale/sharing: 
(1) The signal shall be in a format commonly used and recognized by businesses. An 
example would be an HTTP header field or JavaScript object. 
(2) The platform, technology, or mechanism that sends the opt-out preference signal shall 
make clear to the consumer, whether in its configuration or in disclosures to the 
public, that the use of the signal is meant to have the effect of opting the consumer 
out of the sale and sharing of their personal information. The configuration or 
disclosure does not need to be tailored only to California or to refer to California. 
(c) When a business that collects personal information from consumers online receives or 
detects an opt-out preference signal that complies with subsection (b): 
(1) The business shall treat the opt-out preference signal as a valid request to opt-out of 
sale/sharing submitted pursuant to Civil Code section 1798.120 for that browser or 
device and any consumer profile associated with that browser or device, including 
pseudonymous profiles. If known, the business shall also treat the opt-out preference 

CPPA
 
Page 36 of 67 
signal as a valid request to opt-out of sale/sharing for the consumer. This is not 
required for a business that does not sell or share personal information. 
(2) The business shall not require a consumer to provide additional information beyond 
what is necessary to send the signal. However, a business may provide the consumer 
with an option to provide additional information if it will help facilitate the consumer’s 
request to opt-out of sale/sharing. Any information provided by the consumer shall 
not be used, disclosed, or retained for any purpose other than processing the request 
to opt-out of sale/sharing. For example, a business may give the consumer the option 
to provide information that identifies the consumer so that the request to opt-out of 
sale/sharing can apply to offline sale or sharing of personal information. However, if 
the consumer does not respond, the business shall still process the opt-out preference 
signal as a valid request to opt-out of sale/sharing for that browser or device and any 
consumer profile the business associates with that browser or device, including 
pseudonymous profiles.  
(3) If the opt-out preference signal conflicts with a consumer’s business-specific privacy 
setting that allows the business to sell or share their personal information, the 
business shall process the opt-out preference signal as a valid request to opt-out of 
sale/sharing, but may notify the consumer of the conflict and provide the consumer 
with an opportunity to consent to the sale or sharing of their personal information. 
The business shall comply with section 7004 in obtaining the consumer’s consent to 
the sale or sharing of their personal information. If the consumer consents to the sale 
or sharing of their personal information, the business may ignore the opt-out 
preference signal for as long as the consumer is known to the business. 
(4) If the opt-out preference signal conflicts with the consumer’s participation in a 
business’s financial incentive program that requires the consumer to consent to the 
sale or sharing of personal information, the business may notify the consumer that 
processing the opt-out preference signal as a valid request to opt-out of sale/sharing 
would withdraw the consumer from the financial incentive program and ask the 
consumer to affirm that they intend to withdraw from the financial incentive program. 
If the consumer affirms that they intend to withdraw from the financial incentive 
program, the business shall process the consumer’s request to opt-out of sale/sharing. 
If the business asks and the consumer does not affirm their intent to withdraw, the 
business may ignore the opt-out preference signal with respect to that consumer’s 
participation in the financial incentive program for as long as the consumer is known 
to the business. If the business does not ask the consumer to affirm their intent with 
regard to the financial incentive program, the business shall still process the opt-out 
preference signal as a valid request to opt-out of sale/sharing for that browser or 
device and any consumer profile the business associates with that browser or device. 

CPPA
 
Page 37 of 67 
(5) Where the consumer is known to the business, the business shall not interpret the 
absence of an opt-out preference signal after the consumer previously sent an opt-out 
preference signal as consent to opt-in to the sale or sharing of personal information. 
(6) A business may display whether it has processed the consumer’s opt-out preference 
signal as a valid request to opt-out of sale/sharing on its website. For example, the 
business may display on its website “Opt-Out Preference Signal Honored” when a 
browser, device, or consumer using an opt-out preference signal visits the website, or 
display through a toggle or radio button that the consumer has opted out of the sale 
of their personal information. 
(7) Illustrative examples follow. 
(A) Caleb visits Business N’s website using a browser with an opt-out preference 
signal enabled, but he is not otherwise logged into his account and the business 
cannot otherwise associate Caleb’s browser with a consumer profile the business 
maintains. Business N collects and shares Caleb’s personal information tied to his 
browser identifier for cross-context behavioral advertising. Upon receiving the 
opt-out preference signal, Business N shall stop selling and sharing Caleb’s 
information linked to Caleb’s browser identifier for cross-context behavioral 
advertising, but it would not be able to apply the request to opt-out of the 
sale/sharing to Caleb’s account information because the connection between 
Caleb’s browser and Caleb’s account is not known to the business. 
(B) Noelle has an account with Business O, an online retailer who manages 
consumer’s privacy choices through a settings menu. Noelle’s privacy settings 
default to allowing Business O to sell and share her personal information with 
the business’s marketing partners. Noelle enables an opt-out preference signal 
on her browser and then visits Business O’s website. Business O recognizes that 
Noelle is visiting its website because she is logged into her account. Upon 
receiving Noelle’s opt-out preference signal, Business O shall treat the signal as a 
valid request to opt-out of sale/sharing and shall apply it to her device and/or 
browser and also to her account and any offline sale or sharing of personal 
information. Business O may inform Noelle that her opt-out preference signal 
differs from her current privacy settings and provide her with an opportunity to 
consent to the sale or sharing of her personal information, but it must process 
the request to opt-out of sale/sharing unless Noelle instructs otherwise. Business 
O must also wait at least 12 months before asking Noelle to opt-in to the sale or 
sharing of her personal information in accordance with section 7026, subsection 
(k). In addition, Business O’s notification would not allow it to fall within the 
exception set forth in Civil Code section 1798.135, subdivision (b)(1), because it 
would not be complying with the requirements set forth in subsection (f). 
(C) Angela also has an account with Business O and has enabled an opt-out 
preference signal on her browser while logged into her account. Business O 

CPPA
 
Page 38 of 67 
applies the opt-out preference signal as a valid request to opt-out of sale/sharing 
not only to Angela’s current browser, but also to Angela’s account because she is 
known to the business while making the request. Angela later logs into her 
account with Business O using a different device that does not have the opt-out 
preference signal enabled. Business O shall not interpret the absence of the opt-
out preference signal as consent to opt-in to the sale of personal information. 
(D) Ramona participates in Business P’s financial incentive program where she 
receives coupons in exchange for allowing the business to pseudonymously track 
and share her online browsing habits with marketing partners. Ramona enables 
an opt-out preference signal on her browser and then visits Business P’s website. 
Business P knows that it is Ramona through a cookie that has been placed on her 
browser, but also detects the opt-out preference signal. Business P may ignore 
the opt-out preference signal and notify Ramona that her opt-out preference 
signal conflicts with her participation in the financial incentive program and ask 
whether she intends to withdraw from the financial incentive program. If 
Ramona does not affirm her intent to withdraw, Business P may ignore the opt-
out preference signal and place Ramona on a whitelist so that Business P does 
not have to notify Ramona of the conflict again.  
(E) Ramona clears her cookies and revisits Business P’s website with the opt-out 
preference signal enabled. Business P no longer knows that it is Ramona visiting 
its website. Business P shall honor Ramona’s opt-out preference signal as it 
pertains to her browser or device and any consumer profile the business 
associates with that browser or device. 
(d) The business and the platform, technology, or mechanism that sends the opt-out 
preference signal shall not use, disclose, or retain any personal information collected from 
the consumer in connection with the sending or processing the request to opt-out of 
sale/sharing for any purpose other than sending or processing the opt-out preference 
signal.  
(e) Civil Code section 1798.135, subdivisions (b)(1) and (3), provide a business the choice 
between (1) processing opt-out preference signals and providing the “Do Not Sell or Share 
My Personal Information” and “Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information” links or 
the Alternative Opt-out Link; or (2) processing opt-out preference signals in a frictionless 
manner in accordance with these regulations and not having to provide the “Do Not Sell or 
Share My Personal Information” and “Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information” 
links or the Alternative Opt-out Link. They do not give the business the choice between 
posting the above-referenced links or honoring opt-out preference signals. Even if the 
business posts the above-referenced links, the business must still process opt-out 
preference signals, though it may do so in a non-frictionless manner. If a business 
processes opt-out preference signals in a frictionless manner in accordance with 

CPPA
 
Page 39 of 67 
subsections (f) and (g), then it may, but is not required to, provide the above-referenced 
links. 
(f) Except as allowed by these regulations, processing an opt-out preference signal in a 
frictionless manner as required by Civil Code section 1798.135, subdivision (b)(1), means 
that the business shall not: 
(1) Charge a fee or require any valuable consideration if the consumer uses an opt-out 
preference signal. 
(2) Change the consumer’s experience with the product or service offered by the 
business. For example, the consumer who uses an opt-out preference signal shall have 
the same experience with regard to how the business’s product or service functions 
compared to a consumer who does not use an opt-out preference signal.  
(3) Display a notification, pop-up, text, graphic, animation, sound, video, or any interstitial 
content in response to the opt-out preference signal. However, a business’s display of 
whether the consumer visiting their website has opted out of the sale or sharing their 
personal information shall not be considered a violation of this regulation. The 
business may also provide a link to a privacy settings page, menu, or similar interface 
that enables the consumer to consent to the business ignoring the opt-out preference 
signal with respect to the business’s sale or sharing of the consumer’s personal 
information provided that it complies with subsections (f)(1) through (3).  
(g) A business meeting the requirements of Civil Code section 1798.135, subdivision (b)(1) is 
not required to post the “Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information” link or the 
Alternative Opt-out Link if it meets all of the following additional requirements: 
(1) Processes the opt-out preference signal in a frictionless manner in accordance with 
the CCPA and these regulations.  
(2) Includes in its privacy policy the following information: 
(A) A description of the consumer’s right to opt-out of the sale or sharing of their 
personal information by the business;  
(B) A statement that the business processes opt-out preference signals in a 
frictionless manner; 
(C) Information on how consumers can implement opt-out preference signals for 
the business to process in frictionless manner; and 
(D) Instructions for any other method by which the consumer may submit a request 
to opt-out of sale/sharing. 

CPPA
 
Page 40 of 67 
(3) Allows the opt-out preference signal to fully effectuate the consumer’s request to opt-
out of sale/sharing. For example, if the business sells or shares personal information 
offline and needs to request from the consumer additional information that is not 
provided by the opt-out preference signal in order to apply the request to opt-out of 
sale/sharing to offline sales and sharing of personal information, then the business has 
not fully effectuated the consumer’s request to opt-out of sale/sharing. Illustrative 
examples follow. 
(A) Business Q collects consumers’ online browsing history and shares it with third 
parties for cross-context behavioral advertising purposes. Business Q also sells 
consumers’ personal information offline to marketing partners. Business Q 
cannot fall within the exception set forth in Civil Code section 1798.135, 
subdivision (b)(1), because a consumer’s opt-out preference signal would only 
apply to Business Q’s online sharing of personal information about the 
consumer’s browser or device; the consumer’s opt-out preference signal would 
not apply to Business Q’s offline selling of the consumer’s information because 
Business Q could not apply it to the offline selling without additional information 
provided by the consumer, i.e., the logging into an account. 
(B) Business R only sells and shares personal information online for cross-context 
behavioral advertising purposes. Business R may use the exception set forth in 
Civil Code section 1798.135, subdivision (b)(1), and not post the “Do Not Sell or 
Share My Personal Information” link because a consumer using an opt-out 
preference signal would fully effectuate their right to opt-out of the sale or 
sharing of their personal information. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.120, 1798.135, 
1798.140 and 1798.185, Civil Code. 
§ 7026. Requests to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing. 
(a)  A business that sells or shares personal information shall provide two or more designated 
methods for submitting requests to opt-out of sale/sharing. A business shall consider the 
methods by which it interacts with consumers, the manner in which the business collects 
the personal information that it makes available to third parties, available technology, and 
ease of use by the consumer when determining which methods consumers may use to 
submit requests to opt-out of sale/sharing. At least one method offered shall reflect the 
manner in which the business primarily interacts with the consumer. Illustrative examples 
follow. 
(1)  A business that collects personal information from consumers online shall, at a 
minimum, allow consumers to submit requests to opt-out of sale/sharing through an 
opt-out preference signal and at least one of the following methods: an interactive 
form accessible via the “Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information” link, the 

CPPA
 
Page 41 of 67 
Alternative Opt-out Link, or the business’s privacy policy if the business processes an 
opt-out preference signal in a frictionless manner.  
(2) A business that interacts with consumers in person and online may provide an in-
person method for submitting requests to opt-out of sale/sharing in addition to the 
opt-out preference signal. 
(3) Other methods for submitting requests to opt-out of the sale/sharing include, but 
are not limited to, a toll-free phone number, a designated email address, a form 
submitted in person, and a form submitted through the mail.  
(4) A notification or tool regarding cookies, such as a cookie banner or cookie controls, 
is not by itself an acceptable method for submitting requests to opt-out of 
sale/sharing because cookies concern the collection of personal information and not 
the sale or sharing of personal information. An acceptable method for submitting 
requests to opt-out of sale/sharing must address the sale and sharing of personal 
information. 
(b) A business’s methods for submitting requests to opt-out of sale/sharing shall be easy for 
consumers to execute, shall require minimal steps, and shall comply with section 7004. 
(c) A business shall not require a consumer submitting a request to opt-out of sale/sharing to 
create an account or provide additional information beyond what is necessary to direct the 
business not to sell or share the consumer’s personal information. 
(d) A business shall not require a verifiable consumer request for a request to opt-out of 
sale/sharing. A business may ask the consumer for information necessary to complete the 
request, such as information necessary to identify the consumer whose information shall 
cease to be sold or shared by the business. However, to the extent that the business can 
comply with a request to opt-out of sale/sharing without additional information, it shall do 
so.  
(e) If a business has a good-faith, reasonable, and documented belief that a request to opt-out 
of sale/sharing is fraudulent, the business may deny the request. The business shall inform 
the requestor that it will not comply with the request and shall provide to the requestor an 
explanation why it believes the request is fraudulent. 
(f) A business shall comply with a request to opt-out of sale/sharing by: 
(1) Ceasing to sell to and/or share with third parties the consumer’s personal information 
as soon as feasibly possible, but no later than 15 business days from the date the 
business receives the request. Service providers or contractors collecting personal 
information pursuant to the written contract with the business required by the CCPA 
and these regulations does not constitute a sale or sharing of personal information.  

CPPA
 
Page 42 of 67 
(2) Notifying all third parties to whom the business has sold or shared the consumer’s 
personal information, after the consumer submits the request to opt-out of 
sale/sharing and before the business complies with that request, that the consumer 
has made a request to opt-out of sale/sharing and directing them to comply with the 
consumer’s request and forward the request to any other person to whom the third 
party has made the personal information available during that time period. 
(g) A business may provide a means by which the consumer can confirm that their request to 
opt-out of sale/sharing has been processed by the business. For example, the business may 
display on its website “Consumer Opted Out of Sale/Sharing” or display through a toggle or 
radio button that the consumer has opted out of the sale/sharing of their personal 
information. 
(h) In responding to a request to opt-out of sale/sharing, a business may present the 
consumer with the choice to opt-out of the sale or sharing of personal information for 
certain uses as long as a single option to opt-out of the sale or sharing of all personal 
information is also offered. However, doing so in response to an opt-out preference signal 
will prevent the business from using the exception set forth in Civil Code section 1798.135, 
subdivision (b)(1). 
(i) 
A business that responds to a request to opt-out of sale/sharing by informing the 
consumer of a charge for the use of any product or service shall comply with Article 7 and 
shall provide the consumer with a Notice of Financial Incentive that complies with section 
7016 in its response. However, doing so in response to an opt-out preference signal will 
prevent the business from using the exception set forth in Civil Code section 1798.135, 
subdivision (b)(1). 
(j) 
A consumer may use an authorized agent to submit a request to opt-out of sale/sharing on 
the consumer’s behalf if the consumer provides the authorized agent written permission 
signed by the consumer. A business may deny a request from an authorized agent if the 
agent does not provide to the business the consumer’s signed permission demonstrating 
that they have been authorized by the consumer to act on the consumer’s behalf. The 
requirement to obtain and provide written permission from the consumer does not apply 
to requests made by an opt-out preference signal.  
(k) Except as allowed by these regulations, a business shall wait at least 12 months from the 
date of the consumer’s request before asking a consumer who has opted out of the sale or 
sharing of their personal information to consent to the sale or sharing of their personal 
information.  
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.120, 1798.135, 
1798.140 and 1798.185, Civil Code. 

CPPA
 
Page 43 of 67 
§ 7027. Requests to Limit Use and Disclosure of Sensitive Personal Information. 
(a) The unauthorized use or disclosure of sensitive personal information creates a heightened 
risk of harm for the consumer. The purpose of the request to limit is to give consumers 
meaningful control over how their sensitive personal information is collected, used, and 
disclosed. It gives the consumer the ability to limit the business’s use of sensitive personal 
information to that which is necessary to perform the services or provide the goods 
reasonably expected by an average consumer who requests those goods or services, with 
some narrowly tailored exceptions, which are set forth in subsection (m). Sensitive 
personal information that is collected or processed without the purpose of inferring 
characteristics about a consumer is not subject to requests to limit.  
(b) A business that uses or discloses sensitive personal information for purposes other than 
those set forth in subsection (m) shall provide two or more designated methods for 
submitting requests to limit. A business shall consider the methods by which it interacts 
with consumers, the manner in which the business collects the sensitive personal 
information that it uses for purposes other than those set forth in subsection (m), available 
technology, and ease of use by the consumer when determining which methods consumers 
may use to submit requests to limit. At least one method offered shall reflect the manner 
in which the business primarily interacts with the consumer. Illustrative examples follow.  
(1)  A business that collects sensitive personal information from consumers online shall, 
at a minimum, allow consumers to submit requests to limit through an interactive 
form accessible via the “Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information” link or 
the Alternative Opt-out Link.  
(2) A business that interacts with consumers in person and online may provide an in-
person method for submitting requests to limit in addition to the online form. 
(3) Other methods for submitting requests to limit include, but are not limited to, a toll-
free phone number, a designated email address, a form submitted in person, and a 
form submitted through the mail.  
(4) A notification or tool regarding cookies, such as a cookie banner or cookie controls, 
is not by itself an acceptable method for submitting requests to limit because 
cookies concern the collection of personal information and not necessarily the use 
and disclosure of sensitive personal information. An acceptable method for 
submitting requests to limit must address the specific right to limit. 
(c) A business’s methods for submitting requests to limit shall be easy for consumers to 
execute, shall require minimal steps, and shall comply with section 7004.  
(d) A business shall not require a consumer submitting a request to limit to create an account 
or provide additional information beyond what is necessary to direct the business to limit 
the use or disclosure of the consumer’s sensitive personal information. 

CPPA
 
Page 44 of 67 
(e) A business shall not require a verifiable consumer request for a request to limit. A business 
may ask the consumer for information necessary to complete the request, such as 
information necessary to identify the consumer to whom the request should be applied. 
However, to the extent that the business can comply with a request to limit without 
additional information, it shall do so. 
(f) If a business has a good-faith, reasonable, and documented belief that a request to limit is 
fraudulent, the business may deny the request. The business shall inform the requestor 
that it will not comply with the request and shall provide to the requestor an explanation 
why it believes the request is fraudulent. 
(g) A business shall comply with a request to limit by: 
(1)  Ceasing to use and disclose the consumer’s sensitive personal information for 
purposes other than those set forth in subsection (m) as soon as feasibly possible, but 
no later than 15 business days from the date the business receives the request.  
(2) Notifying all the business’s service providers or contractors that use or disclose the 
consumer’s sensitive personal information for purposes other than those set forth in 
subsection (m) that the consumer has made a request to limit and instructing them to 
comply with the consumer’s request to limit within the same time frame.  
(3)  Notifying all third parties to whom the business has disclosed or made available the 
consumer’s sensitive personal information for purposes other than those set forth in 
subsection (m), after the consumer submitted their request and before the business 
complies with that request, that the consumer has made a request to limit and direct 
them 1) to comply with the consumer’s request and 2) to forward the request to any 
other person with whom the third party has disclosed or shared the sensitive personal 
information during that time period. 
(h)   A business may provide a means by which the consumer can confirm that their request to 
limit has been processed by the business. For example, the business may display through a 
toggle or radio button that the consumer has limited the business’s use and disclosure of 
their sensitive personal information. 
(i)    In responding to a request to limit, a business may present the consumer with the choice 
to allow specific uses for the sensitive personal information as long as a single option to 
limit the use of the personal information is also offered.  
(j)    A consumer may use an authorized agent to submit a request to limit on the consumer’s 
behalf if the consumer provides the authorized agent written permission signed by the 
consumer. A business may deny a request from an authorized agent if the agent does not 
provide to the business the consumer’s signed permission demonstrating that they have 
been authorized by the consumer to act on the consumer’s behalf.  

CPPA
 
Page 45 of 67 
(k)   A business that responds to a request to limit by informing the consumer of a charge for 
the use of any product or service shall comply with Article 7 and shall provide the 
consumer with a Notice of Financial Incentive that complies with section 7016 in its 
response.  
(l)  Except as allowed by these regulations, a business shall wait at least 12 months from the 
date the consumer’s request to limit is received before asking a consumer who has 
exercised their right to limit to consent to the use or disclosure of their sensitive personal 
information for purposes other than those set forth in subsection (m).  
(m) The purposes identified in Civil Code section 1798.121, subdivision (a), for which a business 
may use or disclose sensitive personal information without being required to offer 
consumers a right to limit are as follows. A business that only uses or discloses sensitive 
personal information for these purposes, provided that the use or disclosure is reasonably 
necessary and proportionate for those purposes, is not required to post a Notice of Right 
to Limit or provide a method for submitting a request to limit.  
(1)  To perform the services or provide the goods reasonably expected by an average 
consumer who requests those goods or services. For example, a consumer’s precise 
geolocation may be used by a mobile application that is providing the consumer with 
directions on how to get to a specific location. A consumer’s precise geolocation may 
not, however, be used by a gaming application where the average consumer would 
not expect the application to need this piece of sensitive personal information. 
(2)  To prevent, detect, and investigate security incidents that compromise the 
availability, authenticity, integrity, or confidentiality of stored or transmitted personal 
information. For example, a business may disclose a consumer’s log-in information to 
a data security company that it has hired to investigate and remediate a data breach 
that involved that consumer’s account. 
(3) To resist malicious, deceptive, fraudulent, or illegal actions directed at the business 
and to prosecute those responsible for those actions. For example, a business may 
use information about a consumer’s ethnicity and/or the contents of email and text 
messages to investigate claims of racial discrimination or hate speech. 
(4)  To ensure the physical safety of natural persons. For example, a business may 
disclose a consumer’s geolocation information to law enforcement to investigate an 
alleged kidnapping. 
(5)  For short-term, transient use, including, but not limited to, nonpersonalized 
advertising shown as part of a consumer’s current interaction with the business, 
provided that the personal information is not disclosed to another third party and is 
not used to build a profile about the consumer or otherwise alter the consumer’s 
experience outside the current interaction with the business. For example, a business 
that sells religious books can use information about its customers’ interest in its 

CPPA
 
Page 46 of 67 
religious content to serve contextual advertising for other kinds of religious 
merchandise within its store or on its website, so long as the business does not use 
sensitive personal information to create a profile about an individual consumer or 
disclose personal information that reveals consumers’ religious beliefs to third 
parties. 
(6) To perform services on behalf of the business. For example, a business may use 
information for maintaining or servicing accounts, providing customer service, 
processing or fulfilling orders and transactions, verifying customer information, 
processing payments, providing financing, providing analytic services, providing 
storage, or providing similar services on behalf of the business.  
(7) To verify or maintain the quality or safety of a product, service, or device that is 
owned, manufactured, manufactured for, or controlled by the business, and to 
improve, upgrade, or enhance the service or device that is owned, manufactured by, 
manufactured for, or controlled by the business. For example, a car rental business 
may use a consumer’s driver’s license for the purpose of testing that its internal text 
recognition software accurately captures license information used in car rental 
transactions. 
(8) To collect or process sensitive personal information where the collection or 
processing is not for the purpose of inferring characteristics about a consumer. For 
example, a business that includes a search box on their website by which consumers 
can search for articles related to their health condition may use the information 
provided by the consumer for the purpose of providing the search feature without 
inferring characteristics about the consumer.  
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.121, 1798.135, 
1798.140 and 1798.185, Civil Code. 
§ 7028. Requests to Opt-in After Opting-out of the Sale or Sharing of Personal Information. 
(a)  Requests to opt-in to sale or sharing of personal information shall use a two-step opt-in 
process whereby the consumer shall first, clearly request to opt-in and then second, 
separately confirm their choice to opt-in. 
(b)  If a consumer who has opted-out of the sale or sharing of their personal information 
initiates a transaction or attempts to use a product or service that requires the sale or 
sharing of their personal information, the business may inform the consumer that the 
transaction, product, or service requires the sale or sharing of their personal information 
and provide instructions on how the consumer can provide consent to opt-in to the sale or 

CPPA
 
Page 47 of 67 
sharing of their personal information. The business shall comply with section 7004 when 
obtaining the consumer’s consent. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.120, 1798.135 and 
1798.185, Civil Code. 
ARTICLE 4. SERVICE PROVIDERS, CONTRACTORS, AND THIRD PARTIES 
§ 7050. Service Providers and Contractors.