§ 7010. Overview of Required Disclosures. ..................................................................................... 14 
§ 7011. Privacy Policy. ..................................................................................................................... 14 
§ 7012. Notice at Collection of Personal Information. .................................................................... 17 
§ 7013. Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing and the “Do Not Sell or Share My Personal 
Information” Link. ............................................................................................................................ 20 
§ 7014. Notice of Right to Limit and the “Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information” 
Link. .................................................................................................................................................. 22 
§ 7015. Alternative Opt-out Link. .................................................................................................... 23 
§ 7016. Notice of Financial Incentive. .............................................................................................. 24 
ARTICLE 3 . BUSINESS PRACTICES FOR HANDLING CONSUMER REQUESTS ................................... 25 
§ 7020. Methods for Submitting Requests to Delete, Requests to Correct, and Requests to Know.
§ 7010. Overview of Required Disclosures. 
(a) Every business that must comply with the CCPA and these regulations shall provide a 
privacy policy in accordance with the CCPA and section 7011. 
(b) A business that controls the collection of a consumer’s personal information from a 
consumer shall provide a Notice at Collection in accordance with the CCPA and section 
7012. 
(c) Except as set forth in section 7025, subsection (g), a business that sells or shares personal 
information shall provide a Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing or the Alternative 
Opt-out Link in accordance with the CCPA and sections 7013 and 7015. 
(d) A business that uses or discloses a consumer’s sensitive personal information for purposes 
other than those specified in section 7027, subsection (m), shall provide a Notice of Right 
to Limit or the Alternative Opt-out Link in accordance with the CCPA and sections 7014 and 
7015.  
(e) A business that offers a financial incentive or price or service difference shall provide a 
Notice of Financial Incentive in accordance with the CCPA and section 7016. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100, 1798.105, 
1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.125, 1798.130 and 1798.135, Civil 
Code. 
§ 7011. Privacy Policy.  
(a) The purpose of the privacy policy is to provide consumers with a comprehensive 
description of a business’s online and offline information practices. It shall also inform 
consumers about the rights they have regarding their personal information and provide 
any information necessary for them to exercise those rights.  
(b) The privacy policy shall comply with section 7003, subsections (a) and (b).  
(c) The privacy policy shall be available in a format that allows a consumer to print it out as a 
document.  
(d) The privacy policy shall be posted online and accessible through a conspicuous link that 
complies with section 7003, subsections (c) and (d), using the word “privacy” on the 
business’s website homepage(s) or on the download or landing page of a mobile 
application. If the business has a California-specific description of consumers’ privacy rights 
on its website, then the privacy policy shall be included in that description. A business that 

CPPA
 
Page 15 of 67 
does not operate a website shall make the privacy policy conspicuously available to 
consumers. A mobile application may include a link to the privacy policy in the application’s 
settings menu.  
(e) The privacy policy shall include the following information: 
(1) A comprehensive description of the business’s online and offline information 
practices, which includes the following: 
(A) Identification of the categories of personal information the business has 
collected about consumers in the preceding 12 months. The categories shall be 
described using the specific terms set forth in Civil Code section 1798.140, 
subdivisions (v)(1)(A) to (K) and (ae)(1) to (2). To the extent that the business 
has discretion in its description, the business shall describe the category in a 
manner that provides consumers a meaningful understanding of the 
information being collected.  
(B) Identification of the categories of sources from which the personal information 
is collected.  
(C) Identification of the specific business or commercial purpose for collecting 
personal information from consumers. The purpose shall be described in a 
manner that provides consumers a meaningful understanding of why the 
information is collected. 
(D) Identification of the categories of personal information, if any, that the business 
has sold or shared to third parties in the preceding 12 months. If the business 
has not sold or shared consumers’ personal information in the preceding 12 
months, the business shall disclose that fact. 
(E) For each category of personal information identified in subsection (e)(1)(D), the 
categories of third parties to whom the information was sold or shared. 
(F) Identification of the specific business or commercial purpose for selling or 
sharing consumers’ personal information. The purpose shall be described in a 
manner that provides consumers a meaningful understanding of why the 
information is sold or shared. 
(G) A statement regarding whether the business has actual knowledge that it sells 
or shares the personal information of consumers under 16 years of age.  
(H) Identification of the categories of personal information, if any, that the business 
has disclosed for a business purpose to third parties in the preceding 12 
months. If the business has not disclosed consumers’ personal information for a 
business purpose in the preceding 12 months, the business shall disclose that 
fact. 
(I) For each category of personal information identified in subsection (e)(1)(H), the 
categories of third parties to whom the information was disclosed.  

CPPA
 
Page 16 of 67 
(J) Identification of the specific business or commercial purpose for disclosing the 
consumer’s personal information. The purpose shall be described in a manner 
that provides consumers a meaningful understanding of why the information is 
disclosed. 
(K) A statement regarding whether the business uses or discloses sensitive personal 
information for purposes other than those specified in section 7027, subsection 
(m).  
(2) An explanation of the rights that the CCPA confers on consumers regarding their 
personal information, which includes all of the following:  
(A) The right to know what personal information the business has collected about 
the consumer, including the categories of personal information, the categories 
of sources from which the personal information is collected, the business or 
commercial purpose for collecting, selling, or sharing personal information, the 
categories of third parties to whom the business discloses personal information, 
and the specific pieces of personal information the business has collected about 
the consumer. 
(B) The right to delete personal information that the business has collected from 
the consumer, subject to certain exceptions. 
(C) The right to correct inaccurate personal information that a business maintains 
about a consumer.  
(D) If the business sells or shares personal information, the right to opt-out of the 
sale or sharing of their personal information by the business. 
(E) If the business uses or discloses sensitive personal information for reasons 
other than those set forth in section 7027, subsection (m), the right to limit the 
use or disclosure of sensitive personal information by the business. 
(F) The right not to receive discriminatory treatment by the business for the 
exercise of privacy rights conferred by the CCPA, including an employee’s, 
applicant’s, or independent contractor’s right not to be retaliated against for 
the exercise of their CCPA rights.  
(3) An explanation of how consumers can exercise their CCPA rights and what consumers 
can expect from that process, which includes all of the following:  
(A) An explanation of the methods by which the consumer can exercise their CCPA 
rights. 
(B) Instructions for submitting a request under the CCPA, including any links to an 
online request form or portal for making such a request, if offered by the 
business. 

CPPA
 
Page 17 of 67 
(C) If the business sells or shares personal information, and is required to provide a 
Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing, the contents of the Notice of Right to 
Opt-out of Sale/Sharing or a link to that notice in accordance with section 7013, 
subsection (f). 
(D) If the business uses or discloses sensitive personal information for purposes 
other than those specified in section 7027, subsection (m), and is required to 
provide a Notice of Right to Limit, the contents of the Notice of Right to Limit or 
a link to that notice in accordance with section 7014, subsection (f). 
(E) A general description of the process the business uses to verify a consumer 
request to know, request to delete, and request to correct, when applicable, 
including any information the consumer must provide. 
(F) Explanation of how an opt-out preference signal will be processed for the 
consumer (i.e., whether the signal applies to the device, browser, consumer 
account, and/or offline sales, and in what circumstances) and how the 
consumer can use an opt-out preference signal. 
(G) If the business processes opt-out preference signals in a frictionless manner, 
information on how consumers can implement opt-out preference signals for 
the business to process in a frictionless manner. 
(H) Instructions on how an authorized agent can make a request under the CCPA on 
the consumer’s behalf. 
(I) If the business has actual knowledge that it sells the personal information of 
consumers under 16 years of age, a description of the processes required by 
sections 7070 and 7071. 
(J) A contact for questions or concerns about the business’s privacy policies and 
information practices using a method reflecting the manner in which the 
business primarily interacts with the consumer.  
(4) Date the privacy policy was last updated.  
(5) If subject to the data reporting requirements set forth in section 7102, the 
information required under section 7102, or a link to that information. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100, 1798.105, 
1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.125, 1798.130 and 1798.135, Civil 
Code. 
§ 7012. Notice at Collection of Personal Information. 
(a) The purpose of the Notice at Collection is to provide consumers with timely notice, at or 
before the point of collection, about the categories of personal information to be collected 
from them, the purposes for which the personal information is collected or used, and 
whether that information is sold or shared, so that consumers have a tool to exercise 

CPPA
 
Page 18 of 67 
meaningful control over the business’s use of their personal information. For example, 
upon receiving the Notice at Collection, the consumer can use the information in the 
notice as a tool to choose whether to engage with the business, or to direct the business 
not to sell or share their personal information and to limit the use and disclosure of their 
sensitive personal information. 
(b) The Notice at Collection shall comply with section 7003, subsections (a) and (b).  
(c) The Notice at Collection shall be made readily available where consumers will encounter it 
at or before the point of collection of any personal information. Illustrative examples 
follow. 
(1)  When a business collects consumers’ personal information online, it may post a 
conspicuous link to the notice on the introductory page of the business’s website and 
on all webpages where personal information is collected.  
(2)  When a business collects consumers’ personal information through a webform, it may 
post a conspicuous link to the notice in close proximity to the fields in which the 
consumer inputs their personal information, or in close proximity to the button by 
which the consumer submits their personal information to the business.  
(3)  When a business collects personal information through a mobile application, it may 
provide a link to the notice on the mobile application’s download page and within the 
application, such as through the application’s settings menu. 
(4)  When a business collects consumers’ personal information offline, it may include the 
notice on printed forms that collect personal information, provide the consumer with 
a paper version of the notice, or post prominent signage directing consumers to where 
the notice can be found online.  
(5)  When a business collects personal information over the telephone or in person, it may 
provide the notice orally. 
(d) If a business does not give the Notice at Collection to the consumer at or before the point 
of collection of their personal information, the business shall not collect personal 
information from the consumer.  
(e) A business shall include the following in its Notice at Collection: 
(1) A list of the categories of personal information about consumers, including categories 
of sensitive personal information, to be collected. Each category of personal 
information shall be written in a manner that provides consumers a meaningful 
understanding of the information being collected. 
(2) The purpose(s) for which the categories of personal information, including categories 
of sensitive personal information, are collected and used. 
(3) Whether each category of personal information identified in subsection (e)(1) is sold 
or shared. 

CPPA
 
Page 19 of 67 
(4) The length of time the business intends to retain each category of personal 
information identified in subsection (e)(1), or if that is not possible, the criteria used to 
determine the period of time it will be retained. 
(5) If the business sells or shares personal information, the link to the Notice of Right to 
Opt-out of Sale/Sharing, or in the case of offline notices, where the webpage can be 
found online. 
(6) A link to the business’s privacy policy, or in the case of offline notices, where the 
privacy policy can be found online. 
(f) If a business collects personal information from a consumer online, the Notice at Collection 
may be given to the consumer by providing a link that takes the consumer directly to the 
specific section of the business’s privacy policy that contains the information required in 
subsection (e)(1) through (6). Directing the consumer to the beginning of the privacy 
policy, or to another section of the privacy policy that does not contain the required 
information, so that the consumer is required to scroll through other information in order 
to determine the categories of personal information to be collected and/or whether the 
business sells or shares the personal information collected, does not satisfy this standard. 
(g) Third Parties that Control the Collection of Personal Information. This subsection shall not 
affect the first party’s obligations under the CCPA to comply with a consumer’s request to 
opt-out of sale/sharing. 
(1) For purposes of giving Notice at Collection, more than one business may control the 
collection of a consumer’s personal information, and thus, have an obligation to 
provide a Notice at Collection in accordance with the CCPA and these regulations. For 
example, a first party may allow another business, acting as a third party, to control 
the collection of personal information from consumers browsing the first party’s 
website. Both the first party that allows the third parties to collect personal 
information via its website, as well as the third party controlling the collection of 
personal information, shall provide a Notice at Collection. The first party and third 
parties may provide a single Notice at Collection that includes the required 
information about their collective information practices. 
(2) A business that, acting as a third party, controls the collection of personal 
information on another business’s physical premises, such as in a retail store or in a 
vehicle, shall provide a Notice at Collection in a conspicuous manner at the physical 
location(s) where it is collecting the personal information. 
(3) Illustrative examples follow. 
(A) Business F allows Business G, a third party ad network, to collect consumers’ 
personal information through Business F’s website. Business F may post a 
conspicuous link to its Notice at Collection on its homepage(s). Business G shall 
provide a Notice at Collection on its homepage(s) or include the required 
information about its information practices in Business F’s Notice at Collection.  

CPPA
 
Page 20 of 67 
(B) Business H, a coffee shop, allows Business I, a business providing Wi-Fi services, 
to collect personal information from consumers using Business I’s services on 
Business H’s premises. Business H may post conspicuous signage at the 
entrance of the store or at the point-of-sale directing consumers to where the 
Notice at Collection for Business H can be found online. In addition, Business I 
shall post its own Notice at Collection on the first webpage or other interface 
consumers see before connecting to the Wi-Fi services offered.  
(C) Business J, a car rental business, allows Business K to collect personal 
information from consumers within the vehicles Business J rents to consumers. 
Business J may give its Notice at Collection to the consumer at the point of sale 
(i.e., at the rental counter) either in writing or orally. Business K may provide its 
own Notice at Collection within the vehicle, such as through signage on the 
vehicle’s dashboard directing consumers to where the notice can be found 
online. 
(h) A business that neither collects nor controls the collection of personal information directly 
from the consumer does not need to provide a Notice at Collection to the consumer if it 
neither sells nor shares the consumer’s personal information. 
(i) 
A data broker registered with the Attorney General pursuant to Civil Code section 
1798.99.80 et seq. that collects personal information from a source other than directly 
from the consumer does not need to provide a Notice at Collection to the consumer if it 
has included in its registration submission a link to its online privacy policy that includes 
instructions on how a consumer can submit a request to opt-out of sale/sharing. 
Note: Authority: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.99.82, 1798.100, 
1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.145 and 1798.185, Civil Code. 
§ 7013.  Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing and the “Do Not Sell or Share My Personal 
Information” Link. 
(a)  The purpose of the Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing is to inform consumers of 
their right to direct a business that sells or shares their personal information to stop selling 
or sharing their personal information and to provide them with the opportunity to exercise 
that right. The purpose of the “Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information” link is to 
immediately effectuate the consumer’s right to opt-out of sale/sharing, or in the 
alternative, direct the consumer to the Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing. 
Accordingly, clicking the business’s “Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information” link will 
either have the immediate effect of opting the consumer out of the sale or sharing of 
personal information or lead the consumer to a webpage where the consumer can learn 
about and make that choice. 
(b) The Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing shall comply with section 7003, subsections 
(a) and (b). 

CPPA
 
Page 21 of 67 
(c) The “Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information” link shall be a conspicuous link that 
complies with section 7003, subsections (c) and (d) and is located at either the header or 
footer of the business’s internet homepage(s). 
(d) In lieu of posting the “Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information” link, a business may 
provide the Alternative Opt-out Link in accordance with section 7015 or process opt-out 
preference signals in a frictionless manner in accordance with section 7025, subsections (f) 
and (g). The business must still post a Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing in 
accordance with these regulations.  
(e) A business that sells or shares the personal information of consumers shall provide the 
Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing to consumers as follows: 
(1) A business shall post the Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing on the internet 
webpage to which the consumer is directed after clicking on the “Do Not Sell or Share 
My Personal Information” link. The notice shall include the information specified in 
subsection (f) or be a link that takes the consumer directly to the specific section of 
the business’s privacy policy that contains the same information. If clicking on the 
“Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information” link immediately effectuates the 
consumer’s right to opt-out of sale/sharing or if the business processes opt-out 
preference signals in a frictionless manner and chooses not to post a link, the 
business shall provide the notice within its privacy policy.  
(2)  A business that does not operate a website shall establish, document, and comply 
with another method by which it informs consumers of their right to opt-out of 
sale/sharing. That method shall comply with the requirements set forth in section 
7003. 
(3) A business shall also provide the notice to opt-out of sale/sharing in the same 
manner in which it collects the personal information that it sells or shares. Illustrative 
examples follow. 
(A) A business that sells or shares personal information that it collects in the course 
of interacting with consumers offline, such as in a brick-and-mortar store, shall 
provide notice through an offline method, e.g., on the paper forms that collect 
the personal information or by posting signage in the area where the personal 
information is collected directing consumers to where the notice can be found 
online.  
(B) A business that sells or shares personal information that it collects over the 
phone shall provide notice orally during the call when the information is 
collected. 
(f)  A business shall include the following in its Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing: 
(1)  A description of the consumer’s right to opt-out of the sale or sharing of their 
personal information by the business; and 

CPPA
 
Page 22 of 67 
(2)  Instructions on how the consumer can submit a request to opt-out of sale/sharing. If 
notice is provided online, the notice shall include the interactive form by which the 
consumer can submit their request to opt-out of sale/sharing online, as required by 
section 7026, subsection (a)(1). If the business does not operate a website, the notice 
shall explain the offline method by which the consumer can submit their request to 
opt-out of sale/sharing.  
(g)  A business does not need to provide a Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing or the “Do 
Not Sell or Share My Personal Information” link if:  
(1)  It does not sell or share personal information; and  
(2)  It states in its privacy policy that it does not sell or share personal information.  
(h)  A business shall not sell or share the personal information it collected during the time the 
business did not have a Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing posted unless it obtains 
the consent of the consumer. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.120, 1798.135 and 
1798.185, Civil Code. 
§ 7014.  Notice of Right to Limit and the “Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information” 
Link. 
(a) The purpose of the Notice of Right to Limit is to inform consumers of their right to limit a 
business’s use and disclosure of their sensitive personal information and to provide them 
with the opportunity to exercise that right. The purpose of the “Limit the Use of My 
Sensitive Personal Information” link is to immediately effectuate the consumer’s right to 
limit, or in the alternative, direct the consumer to the Notice of Right to Limit. Accordingly, 
clicking the business’s “Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information” link will either 
have the immediate effect of limiting the use and disclosure of the consumer’s sensitive 
personal information or lead the consumer to a webpage where the consumer can learn 
about and make that choice. 
(b) The Notice of Right to Limit shall comply with section 7003, subsections (a) and (b).  
(c) The “Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information” link shall be a conspicuous link 
that complies with section 7003, subsections (c) and (d), and is located at either the header 
or footer of the business’s internet homepage(s).  
(d) In lieu of posting the “Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal Information” link, a business 
may provide the Alternative Opt-out Link in accordance with section 7015. The business 
shall still post a Notice of Right to Limit in accordance with these regulations.  
(e) A business that uses or discloses a consumer’s sensitive personal information for purposes 
other than those specified in section 7027, subsection (m), shall provide the Notice of Right 
to Limit to consumers as follows: 

CPPA
 
Page 23 of 67 
(1) A business shall post the Notice of Right to Limit on the internet webpage to which 
the consumer is directed after clicking on the “Limit the Use of My Sensitive Personal 
Information” link. The notice shall include the information specified in subsection (f) 
or be a link that takes the consumer directly to the specific section of the business’s 
privacy policy that contains the same information. If clicking on the “Limit the Use of 
My Sensitive Personal Information” link immediately effectuates the consumer’s right 
to limit, the business shall provide the notice within its privacy policy.  
(2)  A business that does not operate a website shall establish, document, and comply 
with another method by which it informs consumers of their right to limit. That 
method shall comply with the requirements set forth in section 7003. 
(f) A business shall include the following in its Notice of Right to Limit: 
(1)  A description of the consumer’s right to limit; and 
(2)  Instructions on how the consumer can submit a request to limit. If notice is provided 
online, the notice shall include the interactive form by which the consumer can 
submit their request to limit online, as required by section 7027, subsection (b)(1). If 
the business does not operate a website, the notice shall explain the offline method 
by which the consumer can submit their request to limit. 
(g) A business does not need to provide a Notice of Right to Limit or the “Limit the Use of My 
Sensitive Personal Information” link if:  
(1)  It only uses and discloses sensitive personal information that it collected about the 
consumer for the purposes specified in section 7027, subsection (m), and states so in 
its privacy policy; or 
(2) It only collects or processes sensitive personal information without the purpose of 
inferring characteristics about a consumer, and states so in its privacy policy. 
(h) A business shall not use or disclose sensitive personal information it collected during the 
time the business did not have a Notice of Right to Limit posted for purposes other than 
those specified in section 7027, subsection (m), unless it obtains the consent of the 
consumer. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.121, 1798.135 and 
1798.185, Civil Code. 
§ 7015. Alternative Opt-out Link. 
(a) The purpose of the Alternative Opt-out Link is to provide businesses the option of 
providing consumers with a single, clearly-labeled link that allows consumers to easily 
exercise both their right to opt-out of sale/sharing and right to limit, instead of posting the 
two separate “Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information” and “Limit the Use of My 
Sensitive Personal Information” links. The Alternative Opt-out Link shall direct the 

CPPA
 
Page 24 of 67 
consumer to a webpage that informs them of both their right to opt-out of sale/sharing 
and right to limit and provides them with the opportunity to exercise both rights. 
(b) A business that chooses to use an Alternative Opt-out Link shall title the link, “Your Privacy 
Choices,” or, “Your California Privacy Choices,” and shall include the following opt-out icon 
adjacent to the title. The link shall be a conspicuous link that complies with section 7003, 
subsections (c) and (d), and is located at either the header or footer of the business’s 
internet homepage(s). The icon shall be approximately the same size as other icons used 
by the business in the header or footer of its webpage. 
 
  
(c) The Alternative Opt-out Link shall direct the consumer to a webpage that includes the 
following information: 
(1) A description of the consumer’s right to opt-out of sale/sharing and right to limit, 
which shall comply with section 7003, subsections (a) and (b); and  
(2) The interactive form or mechanism by which the consumer can submit their request to 
opt-out of sale/sharing and their right to limit online. The method shall be easy for 
consumers to execute, shall require minimal steps, and shall comply with section 
7004.  
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.120, 1798.121, 
1798.135 and 1798.185, Civil Code. 
§ 7016. Notice of Financial Incentive.  
(a)  The purpose of the Notice of Financial Incentive is to explain to the consumer the material 
terms of a financial incentive or price or service difference the business is offering so that 
the consumer may make an informed decision about whether to participate. A business 
that does not offer a financial incentive or price or service difference is not required to 
provide a Notice of Financial Incentive. 
(b) The Notice of Financial Incentive shall comply with section 7003, subsections (a) and (b).  
(c)  The Notice of Financial Incentive shall be readily available where consumers will encounter 
it before opting-in to the financial incentive or price or service difference. If the business 
offers the financial incentive or price or service difference online, the notice may be given 
by providing a link that takes the consumer directly to the specific section of a business’s 
privacy policy that contains the information required in subsection (d).  
(d)  A business shall include the following in its Notice of Financial Incentive: 
(1)  A succinct summary of the financial incentive or price or service difference offered;  

CPPA
 
Page 25 of 67 
(2)  A description of the material terms of the financial incentive or price or service 
difference, including the categories of personal information that are implicated by 
the financial incentive or price or service difference and the value of the consumer’s 
data; 
(3)  How the consumer can opt-in to the financial incentive or price or service difference; 
(4)  A statement of the consumer’s right to withdraw from the financial incentive at any 
time and how the consumer may exercise that right; and 
(5)  An explanation of how the price or service difference is reasonably related to the 
value of the consumer’s data, including: 
(A) A good-faith estimate of the value of the consumer’s data that forms the basis 
for offering the price or service difference; and 
(B) A description of the method(s) the business used to calculate the value of the 
consumer’s data. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.125 and 1798.130, 
Civil Code. 
ARTICLE 3. BUSINESS PRACTICES FOR HANDLING CONSUMER REQUESTS 
§ 7020.  Methods for Submitting Requests to Delete, Requests to Correct, and Requests to