§ 7050. Service Providers and Contractors. ..................................................................................... 47 
§ 7051. Contract Requirements for Service Providers and Contractors. ........................................ 49 
§ 7052. Third Parties. ....................................................................................................................... 51 
§ 7053. Contract Requirements for Third Parties. ........................................................................... 51 
ARTICLE 5 . VERIFICATION OF REQUESTS .................................................................................... 52 
§ 7060. General Rules Regarding Verification. ................................................................................ 52 
§ 7061. Verification for Password-Protected Accounts. .................................................................. 54 
§ 7062. Verification for Non-Accountholders. ................................................................................. 55 
§ 7063. Authorized Agents. ............................................................................................................. 56 
ARTICLE 6 . SPECIAL RULES REGARDING CONSUMERS UNDER 16 YEARS OF AGE .......................... 57 
§ 7070. Consumers Less Than 13 Years of Age. ............................................................................... 57 
§ 7071. Consumers at Least 13 Years of Age and Less Than 16 Years of Age. ................................ 58 
§ 7072. Notices to Consumers Less Than 16 Years of Age. ............................................................. 58 
ARTICLE 7 . NON-DISCRIMINATION ............................................................................................. 58 
§ 7080. Discriminatory Practices. .................................................................................................... 58 
§ 7081. Calculating the Value of Consumer Data. ........................................................................... 60 
ARTICLE 8 . TRAINING AND RECORD-KEEPING............................................................................. 61 
§ 7100. Training. .............................................................................................................................. 61 
§ 7050. Service Providers and Contractors. 
(a) A service provider or contractor shall not retain, use, or disclose personal information 
collected pursuant to its written contract with the business except:  
(1) For the specific business purpose(s) set forth in the written contract between the 
business and the service provider or contractor that is required by the CCPA and 
these regulations. 
(2) To retain and employ another service provider or contractor as a subcontractor, 
where the subcontractor meets the requirements for a service provider or contractor 
under the CCPA and these regulations. 
(3) For internal use by the service provider or contractor to build or improve the quality 
of the services it is providing to the business, even if this business purpose is not 
specified in the written contract required by the CCPA and these regulations, 
provided that the service provider or contractor does not use the personal 
information to perform services on behalf of another person. Illustrative examples 
follow. 
(A) An email marketing service provider can send emails on a business’s behalf using 
the business’s customer email list. The service provider could analyze those 
customers’ interactions with the marketing emails to improve its services and 
offer those improved services to everyone. But the service provider cannot use 
the original email list to send marketing emails on behalf of another business.  
(B) A shipping service provider that delivers businesses’ products to their customers 
may use the addresses received from their business clients and their experience 
delivering to those addresses to identify faulty or incomplete addresses, and 
thus, improve their delivery services. However, the shipping service provider 
cannot compile the addresses received from one business to send 
advertisements on behalf of another business, or compile addresses received 
from businesses to sell to data brokers. 
(4) To prevent, detect, or investigate data security incidents or protect against malicious, 
deceptive, fraudulent or illegal activity, even if this business purpose is not specified 
in the written contract required by the CCPA and these regulations. 

CPPA
 
Page 48 of 67 
(5) For the purposes enumerated in Civil Code section 1798.145, subdivisions (a)(1) 
through (a)(7). 
(b) A service provider or contractor cannot contract with a business to provide cross-context 
behavioral advertising. Pursuant to Civil Code section 1798.140, subdivision (e)(6), a service 
provider or contractor may contract with a business to provide advertising and marketing 
services, but the service provider or contractor shall not combine the personal information 
of consumers who have opted-out of the sale/sharing that the service provider or 
contractor receives from, or on behalf of, the business with personal information that the 
service provider or contractor receives from, or on behalf of, another person or collects 
from its own interaction with consumers. A person who contracts with a business to 
provide cross-context behavioral advertising is a third party and not a service provider or 
contractor with respect to cross-context behavioral advertising services. Illustrative 
examples follow. 
(1) Business S, a clothing company, hires a social media company as a service provider 
for the purpose of providing Business S’s advertisements on the social media 
company’s platform. The social media company can serve Business S by providing 
non-personalized advertising services on its platform based on aggregated or 
demographic information (e.g., advertisements to women, 18-30 years old, that live 
in Los Angeles). However, it cannot use a list of customer email addresses provided 
by Business S to identify users on the social media company’s platform to serve 
advertisements to them. 
(2) Business T, a company that sells cookware, hires an advertising company as a service 
provider for the purpose of advertising its services. The advertising agency can serve 
Business T by providing contextual advertising services, such as placing 
advertisements for Business T’s products on websites that post recipes and other 
cooking tips.  
(c) If a service provider or contractor receives a request made pursuant to the CCPA directly 
from the consumer, the service provider or contractor shall either act on behalf of the 
business in accordance with the business’s instructions for responding to the request or 
inform the consumer that the request cannot be acted upon because the request has been 
sent to a service provider or contractor.  
(d) A service provider or contractor that is a business shall comply with the CCPA and these 
regulations with regard to any personal information that it collects, maintains, or sells 
outside of its role as a service provider or contractor.  
(e) A person who does not have a contract that complies with section 7051, subsection (a), is 
not a service provider or a contractor under the CCPA. For example, a business’s disclosure 
of personal information to a person who does not have a contract that complies with 
section 7051, subsection (a), may be considered a sale or sharing of personal information 

CPPA
 
Page 49 of 67 
for which the business must provide the consumer with the right to opt-out of 
sale/sharing. 
(f) A service provider or a contractor shall comply with the terms of the contract required by 
the CCPA and these regulations. 
(g) Whether an entity that provides services to a nonbusiness must comply with a consumer’s 
CCPA request depends upon whether the entity is a “business,” as defined by Civil Code 
section 1798.140, subdivision (d).  
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100, 1798.105, 
1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.130, 1798.135, 1798.140 and 
1798.185, Civil Code. 
§ 7051. Contract Requirements for Service Providers and Contractors. 
(a)  The contract required by the CCPA for service providers and contractors shall: 
(1)  Prohibit the service provider or contractor from selling or sharing personal 
information it collects pursuant to the written contract with the business. 
(2)  Identify the specific business purpose(s) for which the service provider or contractor is 
processing personal information pursuant to the written contract with the business, 
and specify that the business is disclosing the personal information to the service 
provider or contractor only for the limited and specified business purpose(s) set forth 
within the contract. The business purpose(s) shall not be described in generic terms, 
such as referencing the entire contract generally. The description shall be specific. 
(3)  Prohibit the service provider or contractor from retaining, using, or disclosing the 
personal information that it collected pursuant to the written contract with the 
business for any purpose other than the business purpose(s) specified in the contract 
or as otherwise permitted by the CCPA and these regulations.  
(4)  Prohibit the service provider or contractor from retaining, using, or disclosing the 
personal information that it collected pursuant to the written contract with the 
business for any commercial purpose other than the business purpose(s) specified in 
the contract, unless expressly permitted by the CCPA or these regulations.  
(5)  Prohibit the service provider or contractor from retaining, using, or disclosing the 
personal information that it collected pursuant to the written contract with the 
business outside the direct business relationship between the service provider or 
contractor and the business, unless expressly permitted by the CCPA or these 
regulations. For example, a service provider or contractor shall be prohibited from 
combining or updating personal information that it collected pursuant to the written 
contract with the business with personal information that it received from another 

CPPA
 
Page 50 of 67 
source or collected from its own interaction with the consumer, unless expressly 
permitted by the CCPA or these regulations. 
(6)  Require the service provider or contractor to comply with all applicable sections of the 
CCPA and these regulations, including—with respect to the personal information that 
it collected pursuant to the written contract with the business—providing the same 
level of privacy protection as required of businesses by the CCPA and these 
regulations. For example, the contract may require the service provider or contractor 
to cooperate with the business in responding to and complying with consumers’ 
requests made pursuant to the CCPA, and to implement reasonable security 
procedures and practices appropriate to the nature of the personal information to 
protect the personal information from unauthorized or illegal access, destruction, use, 
modification, or disclosure in accordance with Civil Code section 1798.81.5. 
(7)  Grant the business the right to take reasonable and appropriate steps to ensure that 
the service provider or contractor uses the personal information that it collected 
pursuant to the written contract with the business in a manner consistent with the 
business’s obligations under the CCPA and these regulations. Reasonable and 
appropriate steps may include ongoing manual reviews and automated scans of the 
service provider’s system and regular internal or third-party assessments, audits, or 
other technical and operational testing at least once every 12 months.  
(8)  Require the service provider or contractor to notify the business after it makes a 
determination that it can no longer meet its obligations under the CCPA and these 
regulations.  
(9)  Grant the business the right, upon notice, to take reasonable and appropriate steps to 
stop and remediate the service provider or contractor’s unauthorized use of personal 
information. For example, the business may require the service provider or contractor 
to provide documentation that verifies that they no longer retain or use the personal 
information of consumers that have made a valid request to delete with the business. 
(10) Require the service provider or contractor to enable the business to comply with 
consumer requests made pursuant to the CCPA or require the business to inform the 
service provider or contractor of any consumer request made pursuant to the CCPA 
that they must comply with and provide the information necessary for the service 
provider or contractor to comply with the request.  
(b) A service provider or contractor that subcontracts with another person in providing 
services to the business for whom it is a service provider or contractor shall have a contract 
with the subcontractor that complies with the CCPA and these regulations, including 
subsection (a).  
(c) Whether a business conducts due diligence of its service providers and contractors factors 
into whether the business has reason to believe that a service provider or contractor is 

CPPA
 
Page 51 of 67 
using personal information in violation of the CCPA and these regulations. For example, 
depending on the circumstances, a business that never enforces the terms of the contract 
nor exercises its rights to audit or test the service provider’s or contractor’s systems might 
not be able to rely on the defense that it did not have reason to believe that the service 
provider or contractor intends to use the personal information in violation of the CCPA and 
these regulations at the time the business disclosed the personal information to the service 
provider or contractor. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100, 1798.105, 
1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.130, 1798.135, 1798.140 and 
1798.185, Civil Code. 
§ 7052. Third Parties. 
(a) A third party that does not have a contract that complies with section 7053, subsection (a), 
shall not collect, use, process, retain, sell, or share the personal information that the 
business made available to it. 
(b) A third party shall comply with the terms of the contract required by the CCPA and these 
regulations, which include treating the personal information that the business made 
available to it in a manner consistent with the business’s obligations under the CCPA and 
these regulations. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100, 1798.105, 
1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.130, 1798.135, 1798.140 and 
1798.185, Civil Code. 
§ 7053. Contract Requirements for Third Parties. 
(a) A business that sells or shares a consumer’s personal information with a third party shall 
enter into an agreement with the third party that: 
(1) Identifies the limited and specified purpose(s) for which the personal information is 
made available to the third party. The purpose(s) shall not be described in generic 
terms, such as referencing the entire contract generally. The description shall be 
specific. 
(2) Specifies that the business is making the personal information available to the third 
party only for the limited and specified purpose(s) set forth within the contract and 
requires the third party to use it only for that limited and specified purpose(s).  
(3) Requires the third party to comply with all applicable sections of the CCPA and these 
regulations, including—with respect to the personal information that the business 
makes available to the third party—providing the same level of privacy protection as 
required of businesses by the CCPA and these regulations. For example, the contract 
may require the third party to comply with a consumer’s request to opt-out of 

CPPA
 
Page 52 of 67 
sale/sharing forwarded to it by a first-party business and to implement reasonable 
security procedures and practices appropriate to the nature of the personal 
information to protect the personal information from unauthorized or illegal access, 
destruction, use, modification, or disclosure in accordance with Civil Code section 
1798.81.5. 
(4) Grants the business the right—with respect to the personal information that the 
business makes available to the third party—to take reasonable and appropriate 
steps to ensure that the third party uses it in a manner consistent with the business’s 
obligations under the CCPA and these regulations. For example, the business may 
require the third party to attest that it treats the personal information the business 
made available to it in the same manner that the business is obligated to treat it 
under the CCPA and these regulations.  
(5) Grants the business the right, upon notice, to take reasonable and appropriate steps 
to stop and remediate unauthorized use of personal information made available to 
the third party. For example, the business may require the third party to provide 
documentation that verifies that it no longer retains or uses the personal information 
of consumers who have had their requests to opt-out of sale/sharing forwarded to it 
by the first party business. 
(6) Requires the third party to notify the business after it makes a determination that it 
can no longer meet its obligations under the CCPA and these regulations. 
(b) Whether a business conducts due diligence of the third party factors into whether the 
business has reason to believe that the third party is using personal information in 
violation of the CCPA and these regulations. For example, depending on the circumstances, 
a business that never enforces the terms of the contract might not be able to rely on the 
defense that it did not have reason to believe that the third party intends to use the 
personal information in violation of the CCPA and these regulations at the time the 
business disclosed the personal information to the third party.  
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100, 1798.105, 
1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.130, 1798.135, 1798.140 and 
1798.185, Civil Code. 
ARTICLE 5. VERIFICATION OF REQUESTS 
§ 7060. General Rules Regarding Verification. 
(a) A business shall establish, document, and comply with a reasonable method for verifying 
that the person making a request to delete, request to correct, or request to know is the 
consumer about whom the business has collected information.  

CPPA
 
Page 53 of 67 
(b) A business shall not require a consumer to verify their identity to make a request to opt-
out of sale/sharing or to make a request to limit. A business may ask the consumer for 
information necessary to complete the request; however, it shall not be burdensome on 
the consumer. For example, a business may ask the consumer for their name, but it shall 
not require the consumer to take a picture of themselves with their driver’s license. 
(c) In determining the method by which the business will verify the consumer’s identity, the 
business shall: 
(1)  Whenever feasible, match the identifying information provided by the consumer to 
the personal information of the consumer already maintained by the business, or use 
a third-party identity verification service that complies with this section. 
(2)  Avoid collecting the types of personal information identified in Civil Code section 
1798.81.5, subdivision (d), unless necessary for the purpose of verifying the 
consumer.  
(3)  Consider the following factors: 
(A)  The type, sensitivity, and value of the personal information collected and 
maintained about the consumer. Sensitive personal information shall warrant a 
more stringent verification process.  
(B) The risk of harm to the consumer posed by any unauthorized deletion, 
correction, or access. A greater risk of harm to the consumer by unauthorized 
deletion, correction, or access shall warrant a more stringent verification 
process. 
(C) The likelihood that fraudulent or malicious actors would seek the personal 
information. The higher the likelihood, the more stringent the verification 
process shall be. 
(D) Whether the personal information to be provided by the consumer to verify 
their identity is sufficiently robust to protect against fraudulent requests or 
being spoofed or fabricated. 
(E) The manner in which the business interacts with the consumer. 
(F) Available technology for verification. 
(d) A business shall generally avoid requesting additional information from the consumer for 
purposes of verification. If, however, the business cannot verify the identity of the 
consumer from the information already maintained by the business, the business may 
request additional information from the consumer, which shall only be used for the 
purposes of verifying the identity of the consumer seeking to exercise their rights under 
the CCPA, security, or fraud-prevention. The business shall delete any new personal 

CPPA
 
Page 54 of 67 
information collected for the purposes of verification as soon as practical after processing 
the consumer’s request, except as required to comply with section 7101. 
(e) A business shall not require the consumer or the consumer’s authorized agent to pay a fee 
for the verification of their request to delete, request to correct, or request to know. For 
example, a business may not require a consumer to provide a notarized affidavit to verify 
their identity unless the business compensates the consumer for the cost of notarization. 
(f) A business shall implement reasonable security measures to detect fraudulent identity-
verification activity and prevent the unauthorized deletion, correction, or access of a 
consumer’s personal information.  
(g) If a business maintains consumer information that is deidentified, a business is not 
obligated to provide or delete this information in response to a consumer request or to re-
identify individual data to verify a consumer request. 
(h) For requests to correct, the business shall make an effort to verify the consumer based on 
personal information that is not the subject of the request to correct. For example, if the 
consumer is contending that the business has the wrong address for the consumer, the 
business shall not use address as a means of verifying the consumer’s identity. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100, 1798.105, 
1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.120, 1798.121, 1798.130, 1798.135, 1798.140 and 
1798.185, Civil Code. 
§ 7061. Verification for Password-Protected Accounts.  
(a)  If a business maintains a password-protected account with the consumer, the business may 
verify the consumer’s identity through the business’s existing authentication practices for 
the consumer’s account, provided that the business follows the requirements in section 
7060. The business shall also require a consumer to re-authenticate themselves before 
deleting, correcting, or disclosing the consumer’s data.  
(b) If a business suspects fraudulent or malicious activity on or from the password-protected 
account, the business shall not comply with a consumer’s request to delete, request to 
correct, or request to know until further verification procedures determine that the 
consumer request is authentic and the consumer making the request is the person about 
whom the business has collected information. The business may use the procedures set 
forth in section 7062 to further verify the identity of the consumer. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100, 1798.105, 
1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.130 and 1798.185, Civil Code. 

CPPA
 
Page 55 of 67 
§ 7062. Verification for Non-Accountholders. 
(a)  If a consumer does not have or cannot access a password-protected account with a 
business, the business shall comply with this section, in addition to section 7060. 
(b) A business’s compliance with a request to know categories of personal information 
requires that the business verify the identity of the consumer making the request to a 
reasonable degree of certainty. A reasonable degree of certainty may include matching at 
least two data points provided by the consumer with data points maintained by the 
business that it has determined to be reliable for the purpose of verifying the consumer. 
(c) A business’s compliance with a request to know specific pieces of personal information 
requires that the business verify the identity of the consumer making the request to a 
reasonably high degree of certainty. A reasonably high degree of certainty may include 
matching at least three pieces of personal information provided by the consumer with 
personal information maintained by the business that it has determined to be reliable for 
the purpose of verifying the consumer together with a signed declaration under penalty of 
perjury that the requestor is the consumer whose personal information is the subject of 
the request. If a business uses this method for verification, the business shall maintain all 
signed declarations as part of its record-keeping obligations.  
(d) A business’s compliance with a request to delete or a request to correct may require that 
the business verify the identity of the consumer to a reasonable or reasonably high degree 
of certainty depending on the sensitivity of the personal information and the risk of harm 
to the consumer posed by unauthorized deletion or correction. For example, the deletion 
of family photographs or the correction of contact information may require a reasonably 
high degree of certainty, while the deletion of browsing history or correction of marital 
status may require only a reasonable degree of certainty. A business shall act in good faith 
when determining the appropriate standard to apply when verifying the consumer in 
accordance with these regulations.   
(e) Illustrative examples follow: 
(1) Example 1: If a business maintains personal information in a manner associated with 
a named actual person, the business may verify the consumer by requiring the 
consumer to provide evidence that matches the personal information maintained by 
the business. For example, if a retailer maintains a record of purchases made by a 
consumer, the business may require the consumer to identify items that they 
recently purchased from the store or the dollar amount of their most recent purchase 
to verify their identity to a reasonable degree of certainty.  
 
(2) Example 2: If a business maintains personal information in a manner that is not 
associated with a named actual person, the business may verify the consumer by 
requiring the consumer to demonstrate that they are the sole consumer associated 
with the personal information. For example, a business may have a mobile 

CPPA
 
Page 56 of 67 
application that collects personal information about the consumer but does not 
require an account. The business may determine whether, based on the facts and 
considering the factors set forth in section 7060, subsection (b)(3), it may reasonably 
verify a consumer by asking them to provide information that only the person who 
used the mobile application may know or by requiring the consumer to respond to a 
notification sent to their device.  
(f) A business shall deny a request to know specific pieces of personal information if it cannot 
verify the identity of the requestor pursuant to these regulations.  
(g) If there is no reasonable method by which a business can verify the identity of the 
consumer to the degree of certainty required by this section, the business shall state so in 
response to any request and explain why it has no reasonable method by which it can 
verify the identity of the requestor. If the business has no reasonable method by which it 
can verify any consumer, the business shall explain why it has no reasonable verification 
method in its privacy policy. The business shall evaluate and document whether a 
reasonable method can be established at least once every 12 months, in connection with 
the requirement to update the privacy policy set forth in Civil Code section 1798.130, 
subdivision (a)(5). 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100, 1798.105, 
1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.130 and 1798.185, Civil Code. 
§ 7063. Authorized Agents. 
(a)  When a consumer uses an authorized agent to submit a request to delete, request to 
correct, or a request to know, a business may require the authorized agent to provide 
proof that the consumer gave the agent signed permission to submit the request. The 
business may also require the consumer to do either of the following:  
(1)  Verify their own identity directly with the business.  
(2) Directly confirm with the business that they provided the authorized agent 
permission to submit the request. 
(b) Subsection (a) does not apply when a consumer has provided the authorized agent with 
power of attorney pursuant to Probate Code sections 4121 to 4130. A business shall not 
require power of attorney in order for a consumer to use an authorized agent to act on 
their behalf. 
(c)  An authorized agent shall implement and maintain reasonable security procedures and 
practices to protect the consumer’s information. 
(d) An authorized agent shall not use a consumer’s personal information, or any information 
collected from or about the consumer, for any purposes other than to fulfill the consumer’s 
requests, verification, or fraud prevention. 

CPPA
 
Page 57 of 67 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.100, 1798.105, 
1798.106, 1798.110, 1798.115, 1798.130 and 1798.185, Civil Code. 
ARTICLE 6. SPECIAL RULES REGARDING CONSUMERS UNDER 16 YEARS OF AGE 
§ 7070. Consumers Less Than 13 Years of Age. 
(a)  Process for Opting-In to Sale or Sharing of Personal Information 
(1)  A business that has actual knowledge that it sells or shares the personal information 
of a consumer less than the age of 13 shall establish, document, and comply with a 
reasonable method for determining that the person consenting to the sale or sharing 
of the personal information about the child is the parent or guardian of that child. 
This consent to the sale or sharing of personal information is in addition to any 
verifiable parental consent required under COPPA. 
(2) Methods that are reasonably calculated to ensure that the person providing consent 
is the child’s parent or guardian include, but are not limited to: 
(A) Providing a consent form to be signed by the parent or guardian under penalty 
of perjury and returned to the business by postal mail, facsimile, or electronic 
scan;  
(B) Requiring a parent or guardian, in connection with a monetary transaction, to 
use a credit card, debit card, or other online payment system that provides 
notification of each discrete transaction to the primary account holder; 
(C) Having a parent or guardian call a toll-free telephone number staffed by trained 
personnel;  
(D) Having a parent or guardian connect to trained personnel via video-conference; 
(E) Having a parent or guardian communicate in person with trained personnel; 
and 
(F) Verifying a parent or guardian’s identity by checking a form of government-
issued identification against databases of such information, as long as the 
parent or guardian’s identification is deleted by the business from its records 
promptly after such verification is complete. 
(b) When a business receives consent to the sale or sharing of personal information pursuant 
to subsection (a), the business shall inform the parent or guardian of the right to opt-out of 
sale/sharing and of the process for doing so on behalf of their child pursuant to section 
7026, subsections (a)-(f). 

CPPA
 
Page 58 of 67 
(c) A business shall establish, document, and comply with a reasonable method, in accordance 
with the methods set forth in subsection (a)(2), for determining that a person submitting a 
request to delete, request to correct, or request to know the personal information of a 
child under the age of 13 is the parent or guardian of that child. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.120, 1798.135 and 
1798.185, Civil Code. 
§ 7071. Consumers at Least 13 Years of Age and Less Than 16 Years of Age. 
(a)  A business that has actual knowledge that it sells or shares the personal information of 
consumers at least 13 years of age and less than 16 years of age shall establish, document, 
and comply with a reasonable process for allowing such consumers to opt-in to the sale or 
sharing of their personal information, pursuant to section 7028. 
(b) When a business receives a request to opt-in to the sale or sharing of personal information 
from a consumer at least 13 years of age and less than 16 years of age, the business shall 
inform the consumer of their ongoing right to opt-out of sale/sharing at any point in the 
future and of the process for doing so pursuant to section 7026. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.120, 1798.135 and 
1798.185, Civil Code. 
§ 7072. Notices to Consumers Less Than 16 Years of Age. 
(a)  A business subject to sections 7070 and/or 7071 shall include a description of the 
processes set forth in those sections in its privacy policy. 
(b) A business that exclusively targets offers of goods or services directly to consumers under 
16 years of age and does not sell or share the personal information without the consent of 
consumers at least 13 years of age and less than 16 years of age, or the consent of their 
parent or guardian for consumers under 13 years of age, is not required to provide the 
Notice of Right to Opt-out of Sale/Sharing.  
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.120, 1798.135 and 
1798.185, Civil Code. 
ARTICLE 7. NON-DISCRIMINATION 
§ 7080. Discriminatory Practices. 
(a)  A price or service difference is discriminatory, and therefore prohibited by Civil Code 
section 1798.125, if the business treats a consumer differently because the consumer 
exercised a right conferred by the CCPA or these regulations.  

CPPA
 
Page 59 of 67 
(b) A business may offer a price or service difference that is non-discriminatory. A price or 
service difference is non-discriminatory if it is reasonably related to the value of the 
consumer’s data. If a business is unable to calculate a good-faith estimate of the value of 
the consumer’s data or cannot show that the price or service difference is reasonably 
related to the value of the consumer’s data, that business shall not offer the price or 
service difference. 
(c) A business’s denial of a consumer’s request to delete, request to correct, request to know, 
or request to opt-out of sale/sharing for reasons permitted by the CCPA or these 
regulations shall not be considered discriminatory. 
(d) Illustrative examples follow: 
(1) Example 1: A music streaming business offers a free service as well as a premium 
service that costs $5 per month. If only the consumers who pay for the music 
streaming service are allowed to opt-out of the sale or sharing of their personal 
information, then the practice is discriminatory, unless the $5-per-month payment is 
reasonably related to the value of the consumer’s data to the business. 
(2) Example 2: A clothing business offers a loyalty program whereby customers receive a 
$5-off coupon by email after spending $100 with the business. A consumer submits a 
request to delete all personal information the business has collected about them but 
also informs the business that they want to continue to participate in the loyalty 
program. The business may deny their request to delete with regard to their email 
address and the amount the consumer has spent with the business because that 
information is necessary for the business to provide the loyalty program requested by 
the consumer and is reasonably anticipated within the context of the business’s 
ongoing relationship with them pursuant to Civil Code section 1798.105, subdivision 
(d)(1).  
(3) Example 3: A grocery store offers a loyalty program whereby consumers receive 
coupons and special discounts when they provide their phone numbers. A consumer 
submits a request to opt-out of the sale/sharing of their personal information. The 
retailer complies with their request but no longer allows the consumer to participate 
in the loyalty program. This practice is discriminatory unless the grocery store can 
demonstrate that the value of the coupons and special discounts are reasonably 
related to the value of the consumer’s data to the business. 
(4) Example 4: An online bookseller collects information about consumers, including 
their email addresses. It offers coupons to consumers through browser pop-up 
windows while the consumer uses the bookseller’s website. A consumer submits a 
request to delete all personal information that the bookseller has collected about 
them, including their email address and their browsing and purchasing history. The 
bookseller complies with the request but stops providing the periodic coupons to the 
consumer. The bookseller’s failure to provide coupons is discriminatory unless the 

CPPA
 
Page 60 of 67 
value of the coupons is reasonably related to the value provided to the business by 
the consumer’s data. The bookseller may not deny the consumer’s request to delete 
with regard to the email address because the email address is not necessary to 
provide the coupons or reasonably aligned with the expectations of the consumer 
based on the consumer’s relationship with the business. 
(e) A business shall notify consumers of any financial incentive or price or service difference 
subject to Civil Code section 1798.125 that it offers in accordance with section 7016. 
(f) A business’s charging of a reasonable fee pursuant to Civil Code section 1798.145, 
subdivision (h)(3), shall not be considered a financial incentive subject to these regulations. 
(g) A price or service difference that is the direct result of compliance with a state or federal 
law shall not be considered discriminatory. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.125, 1798.130 and 
1798.185, Civil Code. 
§ 7081. Calculating the Value of Consumer Data. 
(a) A business offering a price or service difference subject to Civil Code section 1798.125 shall 
use and document a reasonable and good-faith method for calculating the value of the 
consumer’s data. The business shall consider one or more of the following: 
(1)  The marginal value to the business of the sale, collection, or deletion of a consumer’s 
data. 
(2)  The average value to the business of the sale, collection, or deletion of a consumer’s 
data. 
(3)  The aggregate value to the business of the sale, collection, or deletion of consumers’ 
data divided by the total number of consumers. 
(4)  Revenue generated by the business from sale, collection, or retention of consumers’ 
personal information. 
(5)  Expenses related to the sale, collection, or retention of consumers’ personal 
information. 
(6)  Expenses related to the offer, provision, or imposition of any financial incentive or 
price or service difference. 
(7)  Profit generated by the business from sale, collection, or retention of consumers’ 
personal information. 
(8)  Any other practical and reasonably reliable method of calculation used in good faith. 

CPPA
 
Page 61 of 67 
(b)   For the purpose of calculating the value of consumer data, a business may consider the 
value to the business of the data of all natural persons in the United States and not just 
consumers. 
Note: Authority cited: Section 1798.185, Civil Code. Reference: Sections 1798.125, 1798.130 and 
1798.185, Civil Code. 
ARTICLE 8. TRAINING AND RECORD-KEEPING 
§ 7100. Training.